=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Dist::Zilla::Plugin::Run - Run external commands at specific phases of Dist::Zilla

=head1 VERSION

version 0.022

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  [Run::AfterBuild]
  run = script/do_this.pl --dir %s --version %s
  run = script/do_that.pl

  [Run::BeforeBuild]
  run = script/do_this.pl --version %s
  run = script/do_that.pl

  [Run::BeforeRelease]
  run = script/myapp_before1.pl %s
  run = script/myapp_before2.pl %n %v
  run_no_trial = script/no_execution_on_trial.pl %n %v

  [Run::Release]
  run = script/myapp_deploy1.pl %s
  run = deployer.pl --dir %d --tgz %a --name %n --version %v
  run_no_trial = script/no_execution_on_trial.pl --dir %d --tgz %a --name %n --version %v

  [Run::AfterRelease]
  run = script/myapp_after.pl --archive %s --version %s
  ; %p can be used as the path separator if you have contributors on a different OS
  run = script%pmyapp_after.pl --archive %s --version %s

  [Run::AfterRelease / MyAppAfter]
  run = script/myapp_after.pl --archive %s --version %s

  [Run::Test]
  run = script/tester.pl --name %n --version %v some_file.ext
  run_if_release = ./Build install
  run_if_release = make install

  [Run::AfterMint]
  run = some command %d

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Run arbitrary commands at various L<Dist::Zilla> phases.

=head1 PARAMETERS

=head2 run

Run the specific command at the specific Dist::Zilla phase given by the
plugin, like I<[Run::Release]> runs on release phase.

=head2 run_no_trial

Only run the given command if this isn't a I<trial> build or release.

=head2 run_trial

Only run the given command if this is a I<trial> build or release.

=head2 run_if_release

Only run the given command if this is a release.

=head2 run_no_release

Only run a given command if this isn't a release.

=head1 CONVERSIONS

The following conversions/format specifiers are defined
for passing as arguments to the specified commands
(though not all values are available at all phases).

=over 4

=item *

C<%a> the archive of the release (available to all C<*Release> phases)

=item *

C<%d> the directory in which the dist was built (or minted) (not in C<BeforeBuild>)

=item *

C<%n> the dist name

=item *

C<%p> path separator ('/' on Unix, '\\' on Win32... useful for cross-platform dist.ini files)

=item *

C<%v> the dist version

=item *

C<%x> full path to the current perl interpreter (like $^X but from L<Config>)

=back

Additionally C<%s> is retained for backward compatibility.
Each occurrence is replaced by a different value
(like the regular C<sprintf> function).
Individual plugins define their own values for the positional replacement of C<%s>.

=head1 AUTHOR

Torsten Raudssus <torsten@raudss.us> L<https://raudss.us/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2010 by L<Raudssus Social Software|https://raudss.us/>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=over 4

=item *

Al Newkirk <github@alnewkirk.com>

=item *

Karen Etheridge <ether@cpan.org>

=item *

Nickolay Platonov <nplatonov@cpan.org>

=item *

Olivier Mengué <dolmen@cpan.org>

=item *

Randy Stauner <rwstauner@cpan.org>

=item *

Tatsuhiko Miyagawa <miyagawa@cpan.org>

=item *

Torsten Raudssus <getty@cpan.org>

=back

=cut
